---
layout: post
title:  "vim tips"
date:   2019-04-29 00:01:57 +0800
categories: vim
---
# Where is _vimrc
## gVimPortable.exe
If you start gvim with gVimPortable.exe, it will load the file XX\gVimPortable\Data\settings\_vimrc.

## gvim.exe
If you start gvim with gvim.exe, it will load the file C:\Users\XXUSER\_vimrc.

# How to create a new file in commnad mode
The file will create after you save it with **:w**. It will locate to the directory gVimPortable\ex.tcl. 
```
:e ex.tcl
```

# Search for an exact word in command mode
```
/\<word\>
```

# Enable auto save function
1. Download and extract the latest [vim-auto-save plugin](https://www.vim.org/scripts/script.php?script_id=4521).
2. Copy vim-auto-save-x.x.x\plugin\* to your vim directory vim80\plugin.
3. Copy vim-auto-save-x.x.x\doc\* to your vim directory vim80\doc.
4. Append the content of file **vim-auto-save-x.x.x\doc\tags** to vim80\doc\tags.
5. Place `'let g:auto_save = 1'` to your vimrc.
6. Restart vim.

# Previewing markdown files
Add this to vimrc file. If you want to a live preview, you need to install [Markdown Preview Plus](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/markdown-preview-plus/febilkbfcbhebfnokafefeacimjdckgl) extension to Chrome. Then set **allow access to file URLs** option enabled in the extension's details page.
```vim
" Open markdown files with Chrome.
autocmd BufEnter *.md,*.markdown exe 'noremap <F5> :!start "C:\Users\tomas\AppData\Local\Google\Chrome\Application\chrome.exe" "%:p"<CR>'
```

# How to sort
```
:sort -n
```

# Save and run python script at the same time
Add bellow lines to vimrc file. You need to add double quotes in Windows.
```vim
map <F5> <Esc>:w<CR>:!"%:p"<CR>
```

# How to change the temp directory
Add bellow lines to vimrc file.
```vim
" store backup, undo, and swap files in temp directory
set directory=~\tmp
set backupdir=~\tmp
set undodir=~\tmp
```

# How to use template in gVimPortable
1. Create you skeleton files to the directory XX\gVimPortable\Data\settings\templates\skeleton.txt.
2. Add bellow lines to your vimrc file.
```vim
augroup templates
  au!
  " read in templates files
  autocmd BufNewFile *.* silent! execute '0r ~\templates\skeleton.'.expand("<afile>:e")
augroup END
```
3. When you create a new file using **:e xx.txt** in command mode, it will auto load the skeleton file via the file extension.

## Reference
[how-to-use-a-template-in-vim](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/3785320/how-to-use-a-template-in-vim)

